                          Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System

=> Designing a system which eliminates the involvement of third party organisations such as financial institution for cash to be send directly from one party to another.

=> Electronic payment system allows any two willing parties to transact directly with each other without the need for a trusted third party.

=> Electronic coin as a chain of digital signatures,Each owner transfers the coin to the next by digitally signing a hash of the previous transaction and the public key of the next owner and adding these to the end of the coin.

=> A payee can verify the signatures to verify the chain of ownership.

=> The proof-of-work involves scanning for a value that when hashed, such as with SHA-256, the hash begins with a number of zero bits. The average work required is exponential in the number of zero bits required and can be verified by executing a single hash.

=> All the blocks are chained together.

=> To compensate for increasing hardware speed and varying interest in running nodes over time, the proof-of-work difficulty is determined by a moving average targeting an average number of blocks per hour. If they're generated too fast, the difficulty increases.

1) New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.
2) Each node collects new transactions into a block.
3) Each node works on finding a difficult proof-of-work for its block.
4) When a node finds a proof-of-work, it broadcasts the block to all nodes.
5) Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in it are valid and not already spent.
6) Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating the next block in the chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the previous hash.

=> If a node does not receive a block, it will request it when it receives the next block and realizes it missed one.

=> The first transaction in a block is a special transaction that starts a new coin owned by the creator of the block.

=> Once a predetermined number of coins have entered circulation, the incentive( can transition entirely to transaction fees and be completely inflation free.

=> A user only needs to keep a copy of the block headers of the longest proof-of-work chain, which he can get by querying network nodes until he's convinced he has the longest chain and but by linking it to a place in the chain, he can see that a network node has accepted it,and blocks added after it further confirm the network has accepted it.

=> Nodes are not going to accept an invalid transaction as payment, and honest nodes will never accept a block containing them. An attacker can only try to change one of his own transactions to take back money he recently spent.

=> Proposed a peer-to-peer network using proof-of-work to record a public history of transactions that quickly becomes computationally impractical for an attacker to change if honest nodes control a majority of CPU power.
